# Overview
CREST has developed a maturity model to help you assess the status of your cyber security incident response capability. This model has been supplemented by Release 1 of a spreadsheet-based maturity assessment tool, which helps you to measure the maturity of your cyber security incident response capability on a scale of 1 (least effective) to 5 (most effective). The powerful, yet easy-to-use tool consists of two different spreadsheets, enabling assessments to be made at either a summary or detailed level.
# Background
Many organisations are extremely concerned about potential and actual cyber security attacks, both on their own organisations and in ones similar to them. Dealing with cyber security incidents – particularly sophisticated cyber security attacks – can be a very difficult task, even for the most advanced organisations.
The CREST maturity assessment tool has therefore been developed to help you assess the status of your cyber security incident response capability. The maturity model used in this tool is based on a traditional, proven model.
# Carrying out an assessment
The assessment tool consists of two separate, but related spreadsheets, enabling assessments of an organisation’s cyber security incident response capability to be made at either a summary or detailed level. The high level version allows a quick overview to be obtained, whereas the detailed tool enables a more precise assessment to be made about the real maturity level of your cyber security incident response capability. The detailed tool is based on the responses given to a series of well-researched questions associated with each of the 15 steps. You can select relevant responses to each question by using the dropdown menus provided in the Assessment worksheet

Three different target profiles have been created, which apply to Basic, Important or Critical business functions. A weighting factor can be set in the Weighting worksheet to give the results to particular questions more importance than others.		
# Analysing assessment results
Based on your responses to the questions in the Assessment worksheets your level of maturity for each of the 15 steps is calculated by the tool using a carefully designed algorithm that takes account of both the level of response to each question and the associated weighting factor. A useful summary of your results is produced automatically and presented both as a bar chart and radar diagram (see below) in the Results worksheet, which show the level of maturity for your cyber security incident response capability on the scale of 1 to 5 previously described, comparing this to the target maturity rating, based on the target profile chosen.
